All right.
So in this video we're going to connecter app to our Mongo database using mongoose and we're also going
to define the schema for our to do.
And we could add all of that code into our indexed G-S file.
But as you'll see it's a solid 15 or so lines just to connect to the database and that's just for one
model to do.
But if we had users and I don't know tags and comments and a bunch of other things it would be 100 plus
lines which would overwhelm this file.
Not to mention the fact that we have zero routes zero other code at this moment.
Aside from the bare bones for the simplest possible app so we're not going to do that.
We're going to try and be structured logical about how we create this app.
So we're going to make a new directory called models and inside of models we're going to have two files.
So you can either create them in cloud 9 using this right click and we're going to have our index data.
Yes.
Which is important when we require a model's directory which will be doing a peer we'll be importing
it.
It will automatically look for it indexed out Geass file first and then we also want to have new file
to do that.
Yes and that will be where we put our to do model.
So in this index yes file is where we're going to connect to mongoose and to do that and to start with
our mongoose equals and we're going to require mongoose.
So that's the most basic thing possible.
I'm going to set the debug mode to true and all that that does is allow us to see what's happening at
any given point when things are being sent to a database when they're failing instead of just silently
failing then we're going to connect to our database server this thing over here.
And then what would we do that with Mongoose dot connect and then argue well since we don't have a hosted
thing somewhere using Mangalam we don't have our own server set up.
It's just localhost so monkhood D-B colon slash slash local host slash and then whatever you want to
call your applications database.
So I'm going to do to do API.
It doesn't matter and it doesn't exist we haven't created this database but that's fine.
It will be created for us automatically if we try to connect something and insert something into a database
that doesn't exist.
It will make it so name something it doesn't really matter as long as you don't change it once you from
your code.
And the last thing we'll do here is actually set mongoose promise equals promise.
And this is just to allow us to use the promise syntax.
So we'll have things like this DBI to do that find and we can chain on then and don't catch rather than
having to do a callback function.
And this single line allows us to do that.
We're going to use that promise rather than some other external promise library.
This is all we need to require mongoose to set the debug mode to true which you don't have to have to
connect to our actual database server and then to tell mongoose we're going to use promises.
And then finally we need to go to our to do file and and here is where we actually do all of the logic
to create our to do schema.
So remember each to do there are three things we care about.
And I'll just write them as comments.
So we have our name we have our completed which is a boolean and then we have our created date just
like that.
So before we can go anywhere we need to require mongoose.
I'm just going to copy this sexually when I type that.
OK.
So we're going to define our schema we'll just call it to do schema.
And that's going to be equal to new mongoose dot schema.
And and here is where we pass in an object with the key value pairs and you can add name first and we
can do this for we just Pessin string.
But I'm actually going to add an object in and say type is string so that I can also say it's required.
So if I pass an object I can give it other pieces of data like if it's required and give a message.
I mean you say please how about this.
I'll say name cannot be blank.
Perfect after name.
We have completed and I'll do the same thing because I want that to have a default value.
So type is going to be boolean and you going to have default of false when you add a new to do.
You shouldn't have to specify you haven't done it yet because why would you be adding it if you've already
done it.
So it will be default false.
And that way we won't have to manually set that either.
Mongoose and Monga will take care of it.
And then finally we'll have our created date which is going to be set equal to another object and type
here.
It's going to be date and we're also going to take advantage of default and set it to date dot now.
So that will give us the current date whenever a new to do is created it will have a name it's a string
and it's required if you think we had an error you will have completed which is a boolean true or false
and the default is false.
So we don't have to specify that and create a date is a date and the default is the current time when
it's inserted.
So really all we have to provide is name and the other two are taken care of.
So that's our schema but we're still have another step which is to compile it into a model save it to
a variable so capital T to do is a standard mongoose model and then we give it the name of the model
which is in our case to do and then the schema which is coming from right here.
So we'll save that.
And then the last thing we'll do is add it to module that exports equals to do this model here.
So when we acquired this file to do that.
S what we're actually getting is just the to do model comp. with the end from here that's why we want
to send out and to actually be using that here.
So we'll add a module that exports to do equals require and see we need to use dot slash to do.
So what's happening here.
Okay let's overview our structure in a file like this.
We're going to require the models directory which has two files by default when we require a directory
that looks for indexed Yes.
So it run this code and then we're also requiring the to do J S file and exploiting that out.
So when we require the models directory we're getting require slashed to do which in turn has all this
code where we create the schema compile the model and set that in modules to experts equal to that to
do model.
So all of this is to say we have it across two files in a directory but when we require the models directory
we are getting our to do model and that we're getting the model out.
So we're not actually doing anything with it.
If I run the code right now
node index SJS we won't know really if it's working or not because we're not requiring this code.
We're not running it.
We're not doing anything with to do in the next video we're going to define our first drought that actually
uses the code in our to do model.